hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language in this live class I'm going to
teach you how to do the IELTS reading
task called table completion it's not
the most difficult one out there but it
does require a bit of understanding and
a nice method so as you may know by now
there are 11 different question types in
IELTS reading from multiple choice to
short answer questions and everything in
between
this one is task type number 9 this is
the table completion you may also see
like a summary completion or a flowchart
or a note this is the table so let's go
through the method because you may see
this one on test day and it might look
something like this right that my
friends is a table and obviously you can
see 9 10 11 12 and 13 with a dot dot dot
next to them they are the gaps which you
need to fill from words from the text
with words from the text so the first
thing you need to do on test day is read
the instruction because there's a
critical instruction there that says
choose no more than three words from the
passage for each answer sometimes it
might say two words or one word or one
word and or a number or it has multiple
variations on the instruction so read
the instruction carefully this one means
that we can put one two or three words
into this gap no numbers just words one
two or three of them okay that's cool so
this is what our answer sheet may look
like on test day for example we might
have the word hot or West Australian or
winter or 22 or dry and arid let me
point something out here yes this is a
number but it's the written form of the
number so you cannot write 22 but you
can write 22 because it's one two words
be careful with proper nouns this had a
capital letter in the passage so
therefore I will write a capital letter
on my
she if I wrote Australian with a
lowercase a it would be marked as
incorrect the other thing you need to
watch out for is in the passage you
might get a word that has a dash so
it'll be a word - other word you need to
write it exactly as you found it from
the passage okay and here we have dry
and arid that is three words this is
what the passages will look like let's
just cut to the chase I want you to try
to do this as best as you possibly can
it's going to be three minutes of your
life okay that's it it's gonna take
three minutes and I want you to get all
how many questions are there five
questions right okay yeah yeah yeah yeah
yep yep yep yep yep I think you can do
it I think you can do it let's see let's
say let's say first of all before we do
it I'm gonna give you 30 seconds to look
carefully at this table so you know what
to look for okay I want you to read down
the columns I want you to read across
the rows and get an idea of what you
might I want you to predict what you
might write into these gaps
you
okie-dokie just before we start I just
want to check that everything's okay I
think everything's okay
all right let's get to it and let's do
this so I'm gonna give you three minutes
there is the passages there's the table
let me move this thing there's your
little answer sheet so you're gonna
write your answers here or on your piece
of paper in front of you you have three
minutes to do this I'm gonna give you a
hint all of the answers come from one
paragraph
you
okay I don't know how we're going if
there's not many answers going into
YouTube live okay good okay I'm gonna
give you another minute and a half okay
but I'm also gonna give you a big hint
so let me give you the big hint first
all of the answers are going to come
from this paragraph here okay you don't
need to read this you don't need to read
this so to get 9 10 11 12 and 13
please use this paragraph here I'll give
you another half this a minute and a
half
you
all right let's go through the answers
I'm gonna take you through them I'm
gonna show you where in the text you
should read I'm gonna show you how to do
this where your eyes should be on the
table maybe some of you just thought
that was - BAM believes bullet -
bamboozling too confusing but yeah let
me walk you through this step by step
it'll make a lot of sense okay so we
want to find the species the Spanish
species okay we're looking at question
number nine here which is in the column
preferred climate so we're going to be
scanning our eyes over to look for the
word climate and especially the word
Spanish because we want to know what
type of climate this a dung beetle lives
in so the sentence highlight it says in
the cooler environments of the state of
Victoria the large French species is
matched with smaller temperate climate
Spanish species so what's going to be
the answer there we're looking at the
preferred climate in the last phrase
that says temperate climate Spanish
species now you need to make a decision
are you going to just write the word
temperate or are you going to write
temperate climate because here it
already says climate and here it says
cool it doesn't say cool climate so
we're just going to take a single word
for number nine and the answer is I hope
you got it temperate okay number nine
was temperate let's do number ten right
this time we're still looking at this
Spanish dung beetle but we're looking at
when it starts its active period I don't
really know what that means but I can
see that the French beetle starts its
active active period in late spring so I
know I'm going to be looking for a
season or a month perhaps some sort of
time period for number ten now the
French species is mentioned first the
Spanish species is mentioned next then
it uses this interesting language and it
says the former and it also says the
latter the former is the one that come
that comes before and the latter you can
think of the word later that came later
so we want to be we're interested in
this second sentence here the later or
the latter because now it's talking
about Spanish species the latter which
multiply rapidly in early spring
produced two to five generations
annually so they're active period they
multiply rapidly so that's definitely
active in early spring remember we have
one two or three words so the answer for
number ten is early spring that's the
start of the active period for the
Spanish beetle cool bananas let's move
on to number eleven now the number of
generations per year again the Spanish
beetle the latter the Spanish beetle
which multiply rapidly in early spring
produce two to five generations annually
if you remember back from our
instruction if you had have written two
to five it would be wrong because it
said you can only write words only now
look at this this is a bit of a trick it
says one - - I don't think the answer
would be that cruel to you but just be
careful I just wanted to put this in to
remind you that you should only use a
number if it says use a number in the
instruction otherwise you should write a
word you should copy it straight from
here two two five two two five one two
three words is the answer for number
eleven nice now we're going to move on
to the South African ball roller beetle
and we can see it here the South a South
African ball rolling species cool so
we're going to be looking at this
sentence here when or sorry what type of
climate doesn't prefer
what type not what climate what type of
climate hopefully you noted the compound
word there subtropical and if you've got
subtropical for number 12 it's extremely
well done let's do number 13 now with 13
says the complementary species so it's
gonna be like its friend or the other
species that hangs out with a lot and it
says it commonly works with the South
African tunneling species now again we
have three words the word species is
already here we can't just write South
African we may have to write three words
and I certainly think the answer should
be
South African tunneling so your answer
sheet if you got one two three four five
correct
should have said temperate early spring
two to five subtropical and South
African tunneling with one L who got
five can you just for my sake and for
everybody's sake on YouTube just put
your score into the chat below how many
did you get out of five there this was a
pretty difficult one this was a bit of
an academic test also while you're at it
and if you're on YouTube live if you're
not yet a subscriber to e 2 ions click
that subscribe button down there the big
red button that says subscribe and
there's a little Bell next to it click
that so then you'll be notified when
we're doing live streams which would be
totally cool because something will
happen on your phone and you'll be like
wow in two languages on the phone
that'll be awesome
yes that's all actually yeah guys if you
need help with any of your IELTS in any
which way do check out this website sign
up for free WWE 2 language com we offer
basically everything you need to pass
your IELTS test and get the ban score
that you want including live one-on-one
tutorial or speaking and writing
feedback dozens and dozens of practice
questions sample model answers for your
essays and writing tasks one methods
lessons on how to structure up for all
of the different seven essays all lots
of different stuff like that